Northstar Dashboard - Go-Live Readiness Note

Date: 16 August, 2026.

Pod:
Olang'o Benony Joseph
Sithandekile Ndhlovu
Michael Onyango
Deborah Russell-Abia 

1. What Works (Covered Categories: Orders + Returns)
- Customers can enter an Order ID + Email to see real-time shipping status, carrier, tracking number, and ETA.
- If that order has a return/refund in progress, the refund status and ETA are displayed directly on the same dashboard.
- All invalid Order IDs return a user-friendly "Order ID not found" error.
- The dashboard is fully responsive and works on desktop browsers.
- Error handling for empty fields shows "Please enter both Order ID and Email."
- The Flask API serves both order and return data from mock JSON files.

2. Known Broken (Deferred to V2)

-  Stock availability queries are NOT implemented (scoped to 2 categories per sprint brief).
-  Mock data is static; requires replacement with Northstar's actual order database.
-  No authentication; assumes the customer is already logged in (no session handling).
-  Email field is validated but not used for authentication (reserved for future use).
-  No production-grade server (using Flask development server only).

3. Handover Instructions (For Northstar's Team)

Setup
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/debbieruss-hub/northstar-dashboard.git
   cd northstar-dashboard

2. Ensure Python 3.9+ is installed.

3. Install dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

4. Start the application:
python app.py

5. Open your browser and go to:
http://localhost:5000

6. Use these test credentials to verify the flow works:

Order ID	  Email	            Expected Result
ORD-101	   alice@mail.com	  Order + Refund details
ORD-105	   eve@mail.com	      Order only, no refund
ORD-999	   test@mail.com       "Order ID not found"

7. Replace the orders.json and returns.json file paths in app.py with Northstar's internal API endpoints.

8. Update the fetch calls in script.js if the API schema changes.

9. Deploy using a production WSGI server (e.g., Gunicorn, Waitress) instead of the Flask development server.